# Uffeihl Anyr

--8<-- "under_construction.md"

> - **Life Duration:** (Unknown year, probably late 1500s or early 1600s) - Av2 1820
> - **Reign Duration:** (Unknown year, mid Av2 1700s) - Av2 1820

**Uffeihl Anyr** (imperial name: Anyr Kalkorahm Al'Drehn Avsohm I), often referred to simply as **Anyr**, was an [[Avsohm|Avsohmic]] aristocrat and general, who later served as the third and final emperor of Avsohm. He was installed as emperor in the wake of [[Ifeihl|Emperor Zorhis Ifeihl]]'s fall from power. Anyr was a compelling choice due to his military experience, accentuated by the perceived military failings of Ifeihl, and he quickly earned the support of most of the Avsohmic population, popularizing Centralist politics. Although the economy prospered and technology continued to rapidly advance under his rule, the government was also made more authoritarian and freedom of speech was sometimes repressed. Anyr's reign and life were cut short by the abrupt events that caused the [[Fall of Avsohm|empire's fall]].

## Nobility and Military Career

Uffeihl Anyr was likely born in the early years of the empire, to what can be assumed to have been an already-prominent and wealthy family. He is known to have had a brother named "Arawehn". He served as a general in the Avsohmic military, probably having been granted the title due to the prestige of his family's name. Nonetheless, he proved himself to be an excellent commander. The Avsohmic government installed House Anyr as rulers in Sal'Iloh, allowing the family to exercise some degree of control over their allotted domain encompassing the [[South Tharxax|southern Tharhan Plains]] and the Golden Sands. Arawehn Anyr was frequently left to govern while Uffeihl was preoccupied with military campaigns. Under the new leadership, the Golden Sands were renamed to [[Anyr'Nogur]], and Sal'Iloh became [[Sal'Anyr]]. The only battles Anyr is known with certainty to have fought took place in the [[Overworld|continent's]] "far northeast", possibly in [[Faehrcyle]] decades after the [[Frostfang Catastrophe]]. However, he also most likely had a role in Avsohm's enventual victory over the [[Tri-Moon Theocracy|Tri-Moon Theocracy's]] Undead Horde, ending the grueling war that spoiled [[Ifeihl|Emperor Ifeihl's]] public image. Having become immensely popular among the population, he ran for the office of emperor. He campaigned as a Centralist candidate, meaning he advocated for the heightened authority of the empire's central government in [[Av'Sal]]. The election was an easy win for him and he rose to the imperial throne.

## Reign as Emperor (50% SPOILERS)

Upon becoming emperor, Anyr chose to relocate his imperial residence to his former home of Sal'Anyr, wanting to be closer in distance to [[Empire of Maelihs|Maelihs's empire]] for more effective military leadership. As such, the city was heavily fortified, occupied with troops, and outfitted with weapons. Anyr's reign was generally characterized by heavy militarization, being his area of expertise. The Avsohmic military's growth was fueled by the cooperation of [[Blue Exodus]], which Anyr endowed with plentiful financial support. A fleet of airships including the legendary [[Aphelion]] was built. He also most likely ordered the violent conquest of the [[Veruhkt Plateau]]. The economy as well improved considerably after the recession under Ifeihl, allowing more government funds to be spent on scientific research and the development of new technology. The Avsohmic Department of Science became deeply involved with the government's affairs. An entire city dedicated to the DoS's research was constructed at the base of the Nahynaga Mountains, called "Sal'Mevir". Additional experimentation was carried out by [[Red Dawn]]. Technological and scientific advancement accelerated throughout the duration of his rule, in turn giving rise to more powerful forms of weaponry. While he was emperor, he was also married to two wives: Elzahra and Azehl, and he had a daughter: Anyra.

The empire was seeing a new era of prosperity, earning Anyr yet even more popularity. Although Maelihs was no longer a threat and could have even been defeated by Avsohm's mighty forces, he continued to use people's fear for the god as a tool to win support maintain loyalty. Many allied Centralist candidates were elected as senators and governors. Their coalition expanded to the point of being able to dictate policies, and administrative power became more concentrated in Anyr's hands. The regime grew more authoritarian as free speech was suppressed, enemies of the emperor were threatened, propaganda was promoted, and abstract art was prohibited. Anyr also created a cult of personality centered around himself, wishing to surpass the reputation of [[Drehn|Drehn Mal'Sohm]]. People were convinced that he was possessed by a fragment of [[Drehmal|Drehmal's]] soul. A colossal statue of himself carrying the [[Disc||world]] on his shoulders was also erected in Av'Sal. He demanded the utmost reverence and subservience from his subjects. Fitted with his hubris and the empire's great capabilites to meet his demands, Anyr began to pursue new reaches.

--8<-- "spoiler.md"

--8<-- "postyav_spoiler.md"

## Project Apotheosis and the End of the Empire
