# Drehn Mal'Sohm

--8<-- "under_construction.md"

> - **Life Duration:** (Unknown year, likely Av2 1500s) - (Unknown year, likely Av2 1700s)
> - **Reign Duration:** (Unknown year, early adulthood likely Av2 late 1500s) - (Unknown year, likely late Av2 1600s or early Av2 1700s)

**Drehn Mal'Sohm** was the last king of the [[Chosen Kingdom]], and the founder and first emperor of the [[Avsohm|Empire of Avsohm]]. He is largely responsible for the empire's early discoveries that fueled its rapid technological growth and territorial expansion. Drehn had democratic and peaceful ideals that differed from many other monarchs, including future Avsohmic leaders. He was known for rarely using brute force to subjugate land, instead often relying on negotiations. He is revered by many as the greatest leader in the realm's history, even in the present day.

## Childhood

Drehn Mal'Sohm was born as the heir to the throne of the king of the Chosen Kingdom and was probably raised in the capital city of Drabyel. A children's book in [[Av'Sal]] claims that in his childhood, he showed talent in a wide range of skills, including mathematics, athletics, literature, and combat. The same book tells a tale of him breaking a vase and, being an honest boy, confessing to his father. Despite this book likely being propaganda, a different note written by Drehn's tutor corroborates the claim that he excelled academically, also describing him as quiet, observant, and studious.

## Ascent to the Throne

Young Drehn was keen to notice the corruption in the kingdom's government, which he harshly disapproved of. When his father was assassinated, he refused to take part in politics and denied the crown which he was due to inherit. This act earned him widespread popularity among the kingdom's population. Pressured by constant urges from the people, Drehn reluctantly assumed power.

## Reign as Emperor

Upon becoming king, Drehn made sweeping reforms to his government. Although the specifics are unclear, it can be assumed that he implemented policies that ended toleration of corruption, resulting in guilty officials being expelled and preventing any more bribery from taking place. Despite his lessening of authoritarian rule, his very first order as king was implementing the use of torture dungeons as a new punishment for regicide or attempted regicide before the convict would be executed. This decision was driven by a fear that he would meet the same fate as his father. Another one of his first acts as king was ending Drabyel's role as the kingdom's capital, believing that it had become too overcrowded and filled with corrupt politicians. He commissioned the construction of a new city to the west, called "Av'Sal", to replace it. In the meantime, he ruled from a solitary tent. The structure of government also appeared to be changed. An amount of regional autonomy was lended to governorates with democratically elected governors, and legislative power was given to a Grand Senate consisting of elected senators (likely representing different governorships). The head of state themself would also be chosen through elections in the future. Despite all of this, Drehn seemed to retain a great deal of personal power. Along with this transformation came a name change: the Chosen Kingdom was now the Empire of Avsohm.

Drehn's reign over the new empire was largely characterized by territorial expansion in proportions never seen before. The first new regions to peacefully fall under Avsohmic rule appear to have been the Islands of [[Island of Dusk|Dusk]] and [[Island of Dawn|Dawn]] and [[Akhlo'Rohma]]. Drehn also showed interest in the art and culture of the [[Ancient Drehua|Drehuans]], and he financed refurbishments of the [[Drehua Temple]] and old sculptures, as well as supporting their rights. The empire's first great success came from exploration. A vast [[Rehnite Cave|cavern]] in the mountains north of Akhlo'Rohma was discovered, containing a massive deposit of the high-potentia material rehntite. Mine #1 was built to extract and refine the valuable resource in copiuous amounts. Powerful rehntite catalysts were used to create new runic technology, such as energy-detecting survey drones. Drehn sent some of these drones to scout further north, where they sensed an immense source of energy concealed deep within [[Mt. Yavhlix]]. He then sent an expedition of personnel to reach Mt. Yavhlix and start excavation. They were halted by the native [[Faehrclyian Tribes|Faehrcylian tribes]], causing General Hehvlar, defying the will of Drehn, to order an attack. The ensuing battle resulted in the [[Frostfang Catastrophe]]. Despite this disaster, the government secured passage to the mountain and reached the energy source, and the new [[Primary Energy Collection Facility]] inside of Mt. Yavhlix became the most integral point in the empire. The unprecendented output of pure primal energy made it possible to produce loads of primal catalysts, powering even more advanced devices with amplified runic magic.

Under Drehn's command, the Avsohmic Empire continued to grow. He oversaw the building of a formidable military wielding weapons operating on supercharged runes, supplied by the prolific yields of both Mine #1 and the Primary Energy Collection Facility. The government also partnered with [[Blue Exodus]], [[Red Dawn]], and [[Green Serpent]], organizations which collectively became known as the "Big Three", to provide further benefits for the empire in various aspects. Quality of life climbed higher than ever before because of breakthroughs in alchemy and technology along with political stability and peace. The empire's might allowed it to easily incorporate the Heartwood and most [Western regions](/World/Regions/Western_Regions/) into itself without any fighting. Drehn relied solely off of pressure and negotiation to overpower smaller states and claim their territories. The [[Tidal Dynasty]], however, had an enormous standing army, allowing the [[Black Jungle]] to remain untouched by Avsohm. During Drehn's visit to [[Firteid]] and Vulteid, he and the [[Tidal Queen]] allegedly signed a peace treaty after witnessing the extent each other's forces. The nearly continent-spanning Empire of Avsohm continued to prosper in the following decades.

## Resignation and Later Life

After what can assumed to be more than a century of rule, Drehn Mal'Sohm announced his resignation from his role as emperor. He expressed that he was getting old and wished to rest. An election was held to determine the new emperor, which was won by the popular candidate [[Zorhis Ifeihl]]. Drehn died in his old age some time later before the [[Fall of Avsohm|end of the empire]].
