
# Battle for Drehmal

> - **Duration:** Av3 (Unknown year, probably 700s or 800s) - Av3 903
> - **Belligerents:** [[Insohm|Insohmic Coalition]] ([[Casain Empire]], [[Republic of Merijool]], [[United Townships of Dreh'Noha]], [[Kingdom of Dusps]], [[Gozaki Union]], [[Parochial Enclave of Firteid]], [[Kingdom of Highfall]], Insohmic Commonwealth) vs. [[Empire of Maelihs]]
> - **Leaders:** [[Hovadchear|Hovadchear Myrik]] (Insohmic Coalition, until Av3 847), [[Ultva|Ultva Utofal]] (Insohmic Coalition, until unknown year, probably shortly after Av3 847), [[Vahid]] (Insohmic Coalition, after unknown year, mid/late 800s), Independent Leaders of Insohmic Countries (Insohmic Coalition), [[Maelihs]] (Empire of Maelihs), [[Burnt Generals]] (Empire of Maelihs)

The Battle of Drehmal was a long war waged by the Order of Insohm against the Empire of Maelihs, with the goal of liberating the territories that Maelihs conquered during the [[Dune Wars]] from his control. It resulted in a brief period of Insohmic subjugation of western [[Overworld|Drehmal]], before the Order collapsed and the lands were swiftly reacquired by Maelihs.

## Background

Masters Ultva and Hovadchear, the founders of the Order of Insohm, were greatly inspired by the immense power and success of the [[Avsohm|Avsohmic Empire]] in the Second Avihm. Their intention for the Order was to be an alliance of many countries participating in a unified struggle against the Empire of Maelihs in the [West](/World/Regions/Western_Regions/). Insohm paid a lot of effort to the research and recreation of Avsohmic technology, which the masters believed was the key to a successful war against Maelihs's forces. The early years of the Order were plagued with war and internal conflict. However, the alliance ultimately remained intact, and after a period of peace and preparation, the Coalition began their campaign in the West.

## Early War

The progress of the Insohmic Coalition was initially slow, despite significant monetary support from the Council's governments. [[Castle Scarstone]] was constructed on mountains east of the [[North Heartwood]] as a base of operations for the war. The situation worsened in Av3 847 when [[Castle Hovadchear]], the headquarters of the Order, disappeared suddenly and inexplicably along with Master Hovadchear and only left a large crater behind. Not long later, Master Ultva locked himself inside an [[Avsohmic Vault|Avsohmic vault]] in [[Casai]] after seemingly going insane from reading something inside. He was never seen again. The king (name unknown) of Highfall and Duke Duruis of the Kingdom of Dusps threatened to pull their troops out of the West because of their fruitless war spending, and form their own alliance, separate from Insohm. A meeting of the Insohmic Council was called aboard the airship [[ICS Arbiter]]. Councillor Sehdo of the United Townships of Dreh'Noha expressed his wish to leave the coalition unless immediate progress was seen, but Councilor Zarna of the Casain Empire and Councillor Qeijo of the Republic of Merijool, who were at greater risk due to their lands' proximity to Maelihs's empire, threatened anyone trying to leave the Order with war. After a heated argument between council members, Councillor Vahid of the Parochial Enclave of Firteid entered a long and passionate monologue about the sins of Maelihs, with the attention of the entire council. This motivated the councillors in their war efforts, and after a unanimous vote, the Pact of Vengeance was signed, instating Vahid as the new Master of Insohm.

## Success Under Vahid

The change in leadership came to be a turning point in the war, and Maelihs's forces began to be pushed back by the newly galvanized Insohmic Coalition. The Avsohmic technology being utilized on the battlefield proved to be especially effective. Although the [[Skullmother]] was being held at the Birthing Grounds, ready to be used to obliterate the Insohmic forces and scorch their own lands, Maelihs, beginning to regret his past wrongdoings, ordered for her not to be deployed quickly. The Burnt Generals, fearing his wrath, decide against using her at all until his full approval is given. The Generals played most of the role of heading operations, with Maelihs becoming increasingly absent at [[Burnt Palace|his palace]] (he spent time away in Western [[Xivrhynt]] rediscovering his past). Insohmic armies successfully captured the city of [[Caer Adacia]], and moved deeper into Maelihs's territory. Maelihs's army slowly lost their hold on [[Tharxax City]] during a siege. Maelihs personally freed the Skullmother and set her out to sea, a decision which was heavily criticized by his generals. The lands recently conquered by Insohm were partitioned between the member states of the Order and annexed. Eventually, the Coalition's armies advanced into [[The Carmine|the Carmine]], and Maelihs's forces were gradually pushed back toward the Burnt Palace. 

## Ending and Aftermath

In Av3 903, [[Virtuo]] summoned her Grand Parish (of which Master Vahid was a member), and journeyed with them to Eastern [[Xivrhynt]] in order to aid the peoples still surviving and suffering there. No one outside of the Parish was informed of the reason for their leave. In Vahid's absence, the Order of Insohm quickly devolved into chaos and dissolved. The Insohmic territories in the West were also lost due to internal strife and the conquest of Maelihs's armies, who retook all of their former land aside from the areas surrounding [[Fort Nimahj]], which continues to defend against [[Maelmari]] invasions to this day.
