---
tags:
  - Books
---

This book can be found in the [[Athrah]] library.

> The city of Athrah was founded sometime around Av2 1189 along the northern edges of the Redsteps. It was centered around the northern shores of Lake Athrah. A fierce warrior from the Zarha tribe of Southern Casai, Athrah Zarha, envisioned a grand kingdom that spanned across the Casain peninsula. The city of Athrah was the first step towards that goal.
>
> After some time, the tribes that were not apart of Athrah's growing kingdom were denied trade with the kingdom unless they joined. After that, most, if not all of Casai joined the kingdom, forming the Casain Empire in Av2 1255. Unfortunately, Athrah Zarha had died in battle less than a year after the uniting of the peninsula because of the unruly barbarians in the northern reaches of Casai.
>
> The kingdom's first major war was with the tribes of Western Merijool in Av2 1445. This conflict became known as the Zephyr War, as it was primarily fought for control over the plains south of Zephyr Sound. Merijool proved victorious and claimed the plains for themselves. Since the conclusion of the war, there has been uneasy tension between the two nations (until Avsohm forced them to unite under their flag). A few minor skirmishes have broken out along their borders since then, but nothing severe enough to start another war. After the loss of the plains, Casai looked south in search for more fertile farmland. Lahu'Nozur was a fertile land, under control of the Tharhan Empire. Tharhan had significant military power and held the area in a stranglehold. Thus, Casai looked further south to the inhospitable Golden Sands (now known as Anyr'Nogur). The Tharhan Empire saw no value in that land, but Casai did, and so they took it without conflict. The western shores of the Sands touched the warm water of the Sea of Mael and were filled with coral reefs. Casai adapted quickly and became primarily a fishing nation. In this time, Casai grew economically and militarily, strengthening their borders and trading with far off empires such as Ancehl and the Chosen Kingdom. This was often regarded as the peak of the Casain Empire.
>
> However, the Casain empire saw another opportuniry for power: Mt. Ebonfire and its caldera. This was a Tharhan-controlled volcanic region that was recently discovered to be filled to the brim with valuable resources. With their accumulated military power, Casai declared war on Tharhan over control of Ebonfire in Av2 1472.
>
> What Casai failed to consider in this declaration was the immense disadvantage they had. For one, this would make the only two nations they bordered their enemies, as they already has great tensions with Merijool. Second, they would have to transport troops from their primary post near Athrah all the way south, across steep cliffs and mountains into the Ebonfire caldera. Third, the Tharhans already had military camps set up around Ebonfire for this exact situation.
>
> The Ebonfire war was over before it began, and Casai lost. They had only taken the worthless territory at the western edges of the mountain. The war had destroyed their economy and military, marking the end of the Casain Golden Age and the beginning of great turmoil within the nation. The government in Athrah began focusing primarily on the peoples in the Casain Peninsula, and those in the Golden Sands became disconnected. Eventually, a small civil war was fought in Av2 1534 between those north of Ebonfire and those south of it. The people located in the Golden Sands split off from Casai, forming their own nation, the Golden Kingdom.
